>> Sarah Drasner: Let's
talk about asymmetry.
And asymmetry isn't used as much,
cuz it's harder, right?
Creating balance in an asymmetrical
canvas can be a little bit more tricky.
Because unlike symmetry,
where you're just lining it up, and
then it's the same on either side.
And that's all you have to do.
Asymmetry kind of asks you
to be more thoughtful about,
you're still balancing things.
But you're balancing them
a little bit more carefully.
So they did this study a little
while ago of what people thought
the greatest compositions were.
So they showed people paintings after
paintings after paintings after paintings,
and it turns out that most people
picked this kinda composition.
This is The Starry Night from Van Gogh.
Where there's like a tree on one side,
and then there's like a sun or
a moon or something and
then the canvass comes out there.
So even given all the canvases in the
world, and all of these ideas of symmetry,
people do actually gravitate more
towards an asymmetrical canvas to,
as a kind of particular preference.
Probably because the world,
as you look at it and
the world as you see it,
is naturally not perfectly symmetrical.
There are some beautiful
symmetrical things in nature, but
as you look out over a landscape, it's
never gonna be like perfectly aligned.
That just doesn't exist.
So it doesn't just happen in Western art
either, in Eastern art there's a lot
of really close attention paid to
the ideas of balance and asymmetry.
Fun fact,
Edo period prints are my favorites that's
why my name on Twitter is Sarah Edo.
So this is one of
an example of Edo prints,
actually it's on my phone too there's
little pugs in the waves, [LAUGH] anyway.
So this kinda balance and asymmetry is
something that you will see, once you
start to see how people are employing it,
it's a very distinct choice, right.
He could have just had the wave right in
the middle and like maybe even facing you.
But I bet that this print
wouldn't be famous if he did.
And we see that in architecture, as well.
Remember, I'm gonna keep showing
you architecture references.
This is the Sydney Opera House that has
this idea of balance and asymmetry.
And Wabi Sabi,
I'm not sure if you know this concept but
it's kinda like this beautiful risk
idea of like beauty in imperfection
that the pieces of imperfection
are what make something beautiful so
here is a pop that's crack and it's fill
with gold in those areas of its crack and
it becomes more beautiful
because instead of just being.
A pot that's the same as all the other
pots and now has its own distinct history.
There are some beautiful things that
you can check out on triple two with
really amazing compositions that again and
again are asymmetrical or
playing with ideas of asymmetry.
I think Horizon Design does a really good
job of all of these pieces, if you look at
each composition, they really break
down this beauty in asymmetry.
There's an idea of this kind of
way that your eye goes through.
And you see something like that Sable one,
kind of at the top right.
And it's not only is it asymmetrical but
they're also breaking out
of the grid a little bit.
Everything else has an idea of grid but
then you have some of these nice
ones like the one with the car,
the one with the baseball player,
where they make a system and
then they break the system, as a way of
calling your eye and calling attention.